# [2.0.0]

*** HomeBridge Plugin for Rollertec Garage Door Controllers (v2) ***

NOTE: v2 works differently to v1 and is not a drop-in replacement. v1 should be removed before deploying v2.

This plugin enables HomeKit to control a garage door based on the popular PDT Rollertec controller, when interfaced to a Raspberry Pi with the Lo-tech PDT Rollertec Interface kit. Please read the Important Information below, before continuing.

This plugin works with two components:

1. The plugin itself (index.js) which is run on the HomeBridge server and will be installed now.
2. A Python web server, garagedoor-web-server.py, which provides control of the door and is deployed on a Raspberry Pi physically connected to the garage door. Please see below.

The plugin can be adapted to other door openers by modifying the web server as needed (ChatGPT is your friend).

# V2

This version (v2) changes the solution architecture by the introduction of the web server component. It is therefore a breaking change and not offered as an in-place upgrade to v1, which remains available for installations having Homebridge running on the Raspberry Pi physically connected to the garage door.

The web server must be deployed on the Raspberry Pi manually, and configured to run as a service. The web server file is included here to assist this. Please see README.md and INSTALLATION. This architecture brings several benefits:

1. Homebridge no longer needs to be run on the Raspberry Pi connected to the door. If you have a central Homebridge server, this means there is less to maintain since the web server is unlikely to need updating much.
2. A single instance of the plugin can control multiple doors regardless of where they are.
3. Updating Homebridge on Raspberry Pi, and the underlying OS, can be difficult and using this approach the Pi needs to only run the web server providing a reduced attack surface. Homebridge itself can be run on (for example) Ubuntu elsewhere, which can be easier to maintain.
4. Easier to extend funcionality to other doors, since the plugin only needs the simple API provided by the web server.
5. Reduced resource requirements means the web server can be deployed on any Pi board that is to hand.


# SECURITY

This plugin uses a preshared key to authenticate with the web sevrer and a self-signed SSL certificate to protect the key in transit. The certificate is generated by the web server automatically when started, if not already in place.

The key is configured through the Homebridge plugin (along with the web server IP address) and is sent to the web server on first communication if a key has not already been set.

Note that:

1. Anyone with access to this key and network access to the web server can potentially open the door.
2. Applying firewall rules to the Pi to restrict access to the Homebridge server would be preferable.


# KNOWN ISSUES

1. Nearby 433MHz sources may cause erroneous notifications if recognised by the Rollertec CPU and causes certain LED combinations to be triggered.


# IMPORTANT INFORMATION

- MOVING DOORS CAN CAUSE SERIOUS INJURY. NEVER OPERATE THE DOOR UNLESS YOU CAN SEE IT.
- Not all doors are fitted with edge impact detectors, and even where fitted these should not be relied upon.
- Not all LED flash codes are correctly interpretted. This might lead to false alerts, for example if the door controller is receiving radio interference.
- This software has not been exhaustively tested and there could be bugs in the web server code (or Python itself) that enable an attacker to open the door without authentication.
- USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IS ENTIRELY AT YOUR OWN RISK.

If you have any feedback or wish to contribute or extend this plugin, please log an issue on the GitHub project page.
